.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to schemachange

## Reporting issues

When reporting issues please include as much detail as possible about your
operating environment, schemachange version and python version. Whenever possible, please
also include a brief, self-contained code example that demonstrates the problem.

We have
included [issue templates for reporting bugs, requesting features and seeking clarifications.](https://github.com/Snowflake-Labs/schemachange/issues/new/choose)
Choose the appropriate issue template to contribute to the repository.

## Contributing code

Thanks for your interest in contributing code to schemachange!

+ If this is your first time contributing to a project on GitHub, please read through
  our [guide to contributing to schemachange](guide-to-contributing-to-schemachange).
+ There are many online tutorials to help you [learn git](https://try.github.io/). For discussions of specific git
  workflows, see these discussions
  on [linux git workflow](https://www.mail-archive.com/dri-devel@lists.sourceforge.net/msg39091.html),
  and [ipython git workflow](https://mail.python.org/pipermail/ipython-dev/2010-October/005632.html).

### Guide to contributing to schemachange

1. If you are a first-time contributor
    + Go to [Snowflake-Labs/Schemachange](https://github.com/Snowflake-Labs/schemachange) and click the "fork" button to
      create your own copy of the project.
    + [Clone](https://github.com/git-guides/git-clone) the project to your local computer

    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/your-username/schemachange.git

    ```

    + Change the directory

    ```shell
    cd schemachange

    ```
    + Add upstream repository:

    ```shell
    git remote add upstream https://github.com/Snowflake-Labs/schemachange

    ```

    + Now, `git remote -v` will show two [remote](https://github.com/git-guides/git-remote) repositories named:
        + `upstream`, which refers to the `schemachange` repository
        + `origin`, which refers to your personal fork
    + [Pull](https://github.com/git-guides/git-pull) the latest changes from upstream, including tags:

    ```shell
    git checkout main
    git pull upstream main --tags

    ```

2. Create and Activate a Virtual Environment

    1. From the repo directory, create a virtual environment
       ```bash
       python -m venv .venv
       ```

    2. Activate your virtual environment. The following table is a replication
       of [this](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html#how-venvs-work) table:

       | Platform | Shell      | Command                               |
                                   |----------|------------|---------------------------------------|
       | POSIX    | bash/zsh   | `$ source <venv>/bin/activate`        |
       | POSIX    | fish       | `$ source <venv>/bin/activate.fish`   |
       | POSIX    | csh/tcsh   | `$ source <venv>/bin/activate.csh`    |
       | POSIX    | PowerShell | `$ <venv>/bin/Activate.ps1`           |
       | Windows  | cmd.exe    | `C:\> <venv>\Scripts\activate.bat`    |
       | Windows  | PowerShell | `PS C:\> <venv>\Scripts\Activate.ps1` |

    3. With your virtual environment activated, upgrade pip
       ```bash
       python -m pip install --upgrade pip
       ```

    4. Install the repo as an "editable" package with development dependencies
       ```bash
       pip install -e .[dev]
       ```

3. Develop your contribution
    + Create a branch for the features you want to work on. Since the branch name will appear in the merge message, use
      a sensible name such as 'update-build-library-dependencies':

    ```shell
    git checkout -b update-build-library-dependencies
    ```

    + Commit locally as you progress ( [git add](https://github.com/git-guides/git-add)
      and [git commit](https://github.com/git-guides/git-commit) ). Use a properly formatted commit message. Be sure to
      document any changed behavior.

4. Test your contribution
   ```bash
   python -m pytest
   ```

5. To submit your contribution
    + [Push](https://github.com/git-guides/git-push) your changes back to your fork on GitHub

    ```shell
    git push origin update-build-library-dependencies

    ```

    + Go to GitHub. The new branch will show up with a
      green [Pull Request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/about-pull-requests#initiating-the-pull-request)
      button. Make sure the title and message are clear, concise and self-explanatory. Then click the button to submit
      it.

Commit message:

Changes - Removed 3.8 from github actions and added 3.12 - Updated contributing guide and docs to make it cohesive.

.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to schemachange

## Reporting issues

When reporting issues please include as much detail as possible about your
operating environment, schemachange version and python version. Whenever possible, please
also include a brief, self-contained code example that demonstrates the problem.

We have
included [issue templates](https://github.com/Snowflake-Labs/schemachange/issues/new/choose) for reporting bugs, requesting features and seeking clarifications. Choose the appropriate issue template to contribute to the repository.

## Contributing code

Thank you for your interest in contributing code to schemachange!

+ If this is your first time contributing to a project on GitHub, please read through
  our [guide to contributing to schemachange](guide-to-contributing-to-schemachange).
+ There are many online tutorials to help you [learn git](https://try.github.io/). For discussions of specific git
  workflows, see these discussions
  on [linux git workflow](https://www.mail-archive.com/dri-devel@lists.sourceforge.net/msg39091.html),
  and [ipython git workflow](https://mail.python.org/pipermail/ipython-dev/2010-October/005632.html).

### Guide to contributing to schemachange

> **IMPORTANT** : You will need to follow the [provisioning and schemachange setup instructions](../demo/README.MD) to ensure you can run github actions against your snowflake account before placing a PR with main schemachange repository so that your PR can be merged into schemachange master branch.

1. If you are a first-time contributor
    + Go to [Snowflake-Labs/Schemachange](https://github.com/Snowflake-Labs/schemachange) and click the "fork" button to
      create your own copy of the project.
    + [Clone](https://github.com/git-guides/git-clone) the project to your local computer

    ```shell
    # Replace <you-github-username> with your Github User Name otherwise
    # you will not be able to clone from the fork you created earlier.
    git clone https://github.com/<your-github-username>/schemachange.git
    ```

    + Change the directory

    ```shell
    cd schemachange
    ```

    + Add upstream repository:

    ```shell
    git remote add upstream https://github.com/Snowflake-Labs/schemachange
    ```

    + Now, `git remote -v` will show two [remote](https://github.com/git-guides/git-remote) repositories named:
        + `upstream`, which refers to the `schemachange` repository
        + `origin`, which refers to your personal fork
    + [Pull](https://github.com/git-guides/git-pull) the latest changes from upstream, including tags:

    ```shell
    git checkout main
    git pull upstream main --tags
    ```

2. Create and Activate a Virtual Environment

    1. From the repo directory, create a virtual environment
       ```bash
       python -m venv .venv
       ```

    2. Activate your virtual environment. The following table is a replication
       of [this](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html#how-venvs-work) table:

       | Platform | Shell      | Command                               |
       |----------|------------|---------------------------------------|
       | POSIX    | bash/zsh   | `$ source <venv>/bin/activate`        |
       | POSIX    | fish       | `$ source <venv>/bin/activate.fish`   |
       | POSIX    | csh/tcsh   | `$ source <venv>/bin/activate.csh`    |
       | POSIX    | PowerShell | `$ <venv>/bin/Activate.ps1`           |
       | Windows  | cmd.exe    | `C:\> <venv>\Scripts\activate.bat`    |
       | Windows  | PowerShell | `PS C:\> <venv>\Scripts\Activate.ps1` |

    3. With your virtual environment activated, upgrade `pip`

       ```bash
       python -m pip install --upgrade pip
       ```

    4. Install the repo as an "editable" package with development dependencies

       ```bash
       pip install -e .[dev]
       ```

3. Develop your contribution
    + Create a branch for the features you want to work on. Since the branch name will appear in the merge message, use
      a sensible name such as 'update-build-library-dependencies':

      ```shell
      git checkout -b update-build-library-dependencies
      ```

    + Commit locally as you progress ( [git add](https://github.com/git-guides/git-add)
      and [git commit](https://github.com/git-guides/git-commit) ). Use a properly formatted commit message. Be sure to
      document any changed behavior in the [CHANGELOG.md](../CHANGELOG.md) file to help us collate the changes for a specific release.

4. Test your contribution locally

   ```bash
   python -m pytest
   ```
   PS: Please add test cases to the features you are developing so that over time, we can capture any lapse in functionality changes.

5. Push your contribution to GitHub

    [Push](https://github.com/git-guides/git-push) your changes back to your fork on GitHub

    ```shell
    git push origin update-build-library-dependencies
    ```

6.
    + Go to GitHub. The new branch will show up with a
      green [Pull Request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/about-pull-requests#initiating-the-pull-request)
      button. Make sure the title and message are clear, concise and self-explanatory. Then click the button to submit
      it.
