demo/README.MD, before:

# Demo

The contents of this Demo serves two audiences - Consumers and Contributors. For the Consumer, the demo provides a basis on which you can see how schemachange works with the main feature set. For the contributor, who forks the repo and submits PRs to the codebase, this will serve as a basis to test the PR against your own snowflake account to ensure your code change does not break any existing functionality.

## Prequisite

- You will need your own snowflake Account to test the Demo. 
- You will need to review and run statements in the provision folder or setup your own database and schema.
  - [initialize.sql](provision/initialize.sql): Contains the SQL variables to initialize your environment.
  - [setup_schemachange_schema.sql](provision/setup_schemachange_schema.sql)

### Contributors
As a contributor, you will have to set up scehamchange demo database and schemachange schema (See Initialize and Setup scripts below). Alongthen set up the following Secrets in your forked repository so that when the github actions tries 
- SCHEMACHANGE_SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD
- SCHEMACHANGE_SNOWFLAKE_USER
- SCHEMACHANGE_SNOWFLAKE_ACCOUNT

### Consumers
- If you are consumer who is installing schemachange and wants to test-run the demo, then you will have to set the following environment variables.
    - SNOWFLAKE_ACCOUNT
    - SNOWFLAKE_USER
    - SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD
    - SCENARIO_NAME
    - SNOWFLAKE_WAREHOUSE Keyed to SCHEMACHANGE_DEMO_WH
    - SNOWFLAKE_DATABASE Keyed to SCHEMACHANGE_DEMO
    - SNOWFLAKE_ROLE Keyed to SCHEMACHANGE_DEMO_DEPLOY
    
The scripts in the `provision` folder are to be used to setup up your demo database along with a schema in that database that will house the change tracking tables needed to setup and teardown the schemas used to test a working version of the demo DDL scripts.
The [initialize](provision/initialize.sql) script setups the database, warehouse and account level access roles that will be used on the 
The [setup](provision/setup_schemachange_schema.sql) script creates the `SCHEMACHANGE` schema in the database that you created in the initialize step.

# Setup


# Teardown

# 
# citibike

# citibike jinja

Commit message:

Ignore README file changes to trigger Workflow.

demo/README.MD, after:

# Demo

The contents of this Demo serves two audiences - Consumers and Contributors. For the Consumer, the demo provides a basis on which you can see how schemachange works with the main feature set. For the contributor, who forks the repo and submits PRs to the codebase, this will serve as a basis to test the PR against your own snowflake account to ensure your code change does not break any existing functionality.

## Prequisite

- You will need your own snowflake Account to test the Demo. 
- You will need to review and run statements in the provision folder or setup your own database and schema.
  - [initialize.sql](provision/initialize.sql): Contains the SQL variables to initialize your environment.
  - [setup_schemachange_schema.sql](provision/setup_schemachange_schema.sql): Contains the SQL variables to track the individual demo scenarios in its own change history table.

### Contributors
As a contributor, you will have to set up schemachange demo database and schemachange schema (See Initialize and Setup scripts below). Along with that you will also set up the following Secrets in your forked repository so that when the github actions can setup, test and teardown the temporary schema it creates to test the changes to your code. 
- SCHEMACHANGE_SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD
- SCHEMACHANGE_SNOWFLAKE_USER
- SCHEMACHANGE_SNOWFLAKE_ACCOUNT

### Consumers
- If you are consumer who is installing schemachange and wants to test-run the demo, then you will have to set the following environment variables.
    - SNOWFLAKE_ACCOUNT: This will be the account identifier for your snowflake account.
    - SNOWFLAKE_USER: This will be the user that will connect to you snowflake account.
    - SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD: This is the password for the user (SNOWFLAKE_USER) that will connect to the snowflake account.
    - SCENARIO_NAME: This will be demo folder you intend to experiment with. For starters, `basics_demo`, `citibike_demo` or `citibike_demo_jinja` are included with the repo that will set the root folder value in the respective schemachange-config.yml file.
    - SNOWFLAKE_WAREHOUSE Keyed to SCHEMACHANGE_DEMO_WH
    - SNOWFLAKE_DATABASE Keyed to SCHEMACHANGE_DEMO
    - SNOWFLAKE_ROLE Keyed to SCHEMACHANGE_DEMO_DEPLOY
    
The scripts in the `provision` folder are to be used to setup up your demo database along with a schema in that database that will house the change tracking tables needed to setup and teardown the schemas used to test a working version of the demo DDL scripts.
The [initialize](provision/initialize.sql) script setups the database, warehouse and account level access roles that will be used on the 
The [setup](provision/setup_schemachange_schema.sql) script creates the `SCHEMACHANGE` schema in the database that you created in the initialize step.

# Setup


# Teardown

# 
# citibike

# citibike jinja
